Laws and attitudes towards women around the world
can vary from those in your home country.
Some countries and cultures may have different etiquettes
on how men and women greet each other.
Women in senior roles may be less common in the workplace.
Working practices and the way staff interact may be different to your home office.
Women travellers may be perceived as an easier target,
and therefore be at an increased risk of petty crime.
They are also more likely to experience
unwanted attention, sexual harassment or assault.
If you feel uncomfortable, move to a safer place or signal for help.
Good research and preparation can help you mitigate your risk.
What cultural or safety differences might there be?
Use multiple sources and seek advice and recommendations
from friends and colleagues, especially other women.
Consider bringing these items.
When used appropriately they can help deter unwanted attention:
A simple wedding band.
Sunglasses to stop unwanted eye contact.
A personal alarm.
A shawl and long-sleeved top (to cover your shoulders, arms, or hair, as maybe required).
When travelling, make it seem like you are in a group.
Make a call to let someone know you will be arriving shortly.
Even a pretend call can be better than nothing.
Ask for a table for two, and place a coat over the second chair.
Don't let them clear the second place setting,
to make it seem like you're already with, or expecting someone.
See how local women appear in public and try to blend in.
Increase your safety by looking confident and watching your surroundings.
If you are concerned, go to a safe place and seek help.
If you don't speak the local language,
phrase books and translation apps can help you communicate.
In some countries, victims of crime can be treated as offenders.
Seek guidance from your embassy before reporting any incidents.
Most business trips go without a hitch,
and these suggestions should give you extra peace of mind.